If you go to our projects website that's
furman.github.io/browser storage,
we're going to start
working with our project.
So here in the second chapter,
you have a link to another
repo that you can clone.
That's our progressive web app.
It's a progressive web app
known as Coffee Masters, okay?
So we like coffee so it's a PWA.
Let's say that we have a coffee shop.
It's like the menu app where
we can order from there, okay?
It's kind of a test app.
It's vanilla js, so no react,
no bu, no neck js, no nothing,
just plain vanilla js.
So and we are going to use the four
APIs that we have seen here, okay?
So it's github.com/fergman,
my last name, /coffee-masters-pwa, okay?
So if you just go and clone this
project and open that in VS Code or
your IDE, okay?
We're going to see it in action first and
then we will start adding
persistent storage to this app.
That will be our first lab for today.
So if I'm going back to BS code,
This is the code.
You have an HTML, we don't need to
take too much time analyzing this.
But we have an scripts section.
There is an app js
initial like entry point.
And this app js it's importing
using ACMA script modules.
So this is using really modern JavaScript.
I'm importing the other modules.
I have a routing system.
I have a router here that is using
just plain browser APIs to work with
the history, with push tape, something
like react router or view router or
angular router, but done from a scratch.
But it actually is pretty simple, okay?
It's because the important part here will
be to talk about the storage not about
how to make a PWA.
So to run this app and because this
app is a single page application,
we should run it, okay, with a server that
supports single patient's application.
So every route goes to the same
index html, that's kind of the idea.
So in distractions in the website,
you have here a quick server command
that you can run, mpx serve -s.
The -s will actually make it single
page application compatible.
So if I open a terminal here and
run mpx serve -s,
will open a small server on
localhost 3000, for example.
And I can bring, for example,
an iOS simulator here so
we can see how this app looks like.
That's Coffee Masters, okay?
So I have the menu here
as some kind of my home.
So if I want the black tea, I can get in.
I can see the details, and
I can add this to my cart, okay?
And I can go back to the menu and
now add a croissant, okay?
And then, I have the menu, the cart.
On the cart, I can delete something
from the cart, and I can place an order.
That just gives you a random order number
telling you that your order will be ready.
You close, it empties the cart,
that's all.
And by the way, this is a PWA, so I can
install it in my homescreen on iPhone.
I have no one icon and
now I have a full screen app on iPhone.
But this apps is not using any storage so
if we don't have connection,
if the connection is slow,
okay, nothing's gonna work.
I'm not using any kind of storage.
So our goal will be during the rest of
the workshop to actually use web storage
IndexDB, crashes storage and
the file system API to provide some kind
of to improve the user experience to
provide offline support and so on.